# Chess-James_Pierce
A custom-made Chess game that uses Jframe and paint to show the board.

This project is a Chess Game that uses Jframe and paint to display a game. It uses mousePressed and alternates between players to make each respective move. How it works is that affecting the visuals on the board affects a 2d array of values that represents the board. It is a String Array which houses each square on the board. The pieces start with their color "b" or "w" and end with their piece "N" or "K" or "Q" etc.  A blank space on the board is representative of a String of "00". When the visual board is pressed, it changes the 2d array, then the visual board is repainted with these new 2d array values. This allows for changes in the visual board to be affected by underlying code logic. This behaves like a normal game of chess until either someone wins or there is a draw. When that happens, an End Screen(either displaying win for "color" or "stalemate") displays and freezes up the board, so no more moves can be played. As shown in this code, the game is fully functional with no apparent bugs or inconstistencies, but it is not a perfect recreation of Chess. There are a few features that I decided to omit because of their compatibility with the way the system goes. Some of these omitted features are: Castling, En Passant, and Different Draw Rules(other than Stalemate, like 3 repetition or 50 move rule). The main file is Chess.java, and to play it, simply just run the program off of that file. 
